---
permalink: "faqs-exporting.html"
layout: body
title: FAQs on Exporting API
published: true
---

# FAQs on Exporting API

{% include faqs/faqs-tabs %}

## Resource URL

{% include faqs/faqs-query.html %}

## Search Parameters

### keyword

Searches for a match within the question and answer fields.

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/ita_faqs/search?api_key={your key}&q={term}

**_Example_**

{% include faqs/faqs-query-keyword.html %}

### industries

Returns FAQs for specific controlled industry terms. This method allows you to search for multiple industries (plural) separated by commas.

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/ita_faqs/search?api_key={your key}&industries={terms}

**_Example_**

{% include faqs/faqs-query-industries.html %}

### countries

Returns FAQs for a specific country based on [ISO alpha-2 country codes](http://www.iso.org/iso/home/standards/country_codes/country_names_and_code_elements.htm). This method allows you to search for multiple countries (plural) separated by commas.

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/ita_faqs/search?api_key={your key}&countries={country codes}

**_Example_**

{% include faqs/faqs-query-countries.html %}


### topics

Returns FAQs based on topic name.  This method allows you to search for multiple topics (plural) separated by commas.

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/ita_faqs/search?api_key={your key}&topics={terms}

**_Example_**

{% include faqs/faqs-query-topics.html %}


### trade_regions

Returns FAQs based on trade region.  This method allows you to search for multiple trade regions separated by commas.

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/ita_faqs/search?api_key={your key}&trade_regions={terms}

**_Example_**

{% include faqs/faqs-query-trade-regions.html %}


### world_regions

Returns FAQs based on world region.  This method allows you to search for multiple world regions (plural) separated by commas.

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/ita_faqs/search?api_key={your key}&world_regions={terms}

**_Example_**

{% include faqs/faqs-query-world-regions.html %}


### first_published_date

Returns FAQs based on the date they were first published.  Dates are filtered by comparing them against an inclusive range, which must be entered with the following format:  YYYY-mm-dd TO YYYY-mm-dd.  Searching on a single date can be done by entering the same value for the start and end of the range.

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/ita_faqs/search?api_key={your key}&first_published_date={YYYY-mm-dd TO YYYY-mm-dd}

**_Example_**

{% include faqs/faqs-query-first-published-date.html %}

### last_published_date

Returns FAQs based on the date they were last updated.  Dates are filtered by comparing them against an inclusive range, which must be entered with the following format:  YYYY-mm-dd TO YYYY-mm-dd.  Searching on a single date can be done by entering the same value for the start and end of the range.

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/ita_faqs/search?api_key={your key}&last_published_date={YYYY-mm-dd TO YYYY-mm-dd}

**_Example_**

{% include faqs/faqs-query-last-published-date.html %}


### size + offset

The size parameter allows you to configure the maximum amount of hits to be returned. The offset parameter defines the offset from the first result you want to fetch.

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/ita_faqs/search?api_key={your key}&size={1 to 100}&offset={1 to n}

**_Example_**

{% include faqs/faqs-query-size.html %}

## Metadata

### Last Updated and Last Imported

Recency information about each source queried is given in **sources_used** in the following fields:

| Field	| Description |
| ------| -------------|
| source | The name of the issuing agency. |
| source_last_updated | The most recent date and time the data changed. |
| last_imported | The most recent date and time the data was imported. |

The *source_last_updated* field reflects the most recent date and time we noticed that the issuing agency had updated the data. We check for updates and import lists at the same time daily.

### Search Performed At

The *search_performed_at* field displays the date and time of the current search in UTC.

## Return Values

| Field              | Description                             |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------- |
| id                 | Unique identifier for the FAQ.             |
| question         	 | The question being addressed by the FAQ.|
| answer             | The answer portion of the FAQ.  |
| first_published_date        | The date the FAQ was first published.  |
| last_published_date        | The date the FAQ was last updated.  |
| url       | The URL where the published FAQ can be viewed.  |
| industries           | Industry categories assigned to the FAQ. |
| topics              | Topic categories assigned to the FAQ.      |
| countries            | Countries relevent to the FAQ.          |
| trade_regions            | Trade regions relevent to the FAQ.          |
| world_regions            | World regions relevent to the FAQ.          |
