---
permalink: "/consolidated-screening-list.html"
layout: body
title: Consolidated Screening API
published: true
---

# Consolidated Screening List API

{% include screening-list/csl-tabs %}

## Resource URL

This endpoint will search across all eleven screening lists.  To search a subset, see sources below.

{% include screening-list/csl-query.html %}

## Search Parameters for Consolidated Screening List Sources

### keyword

Searches for a match within the **name**, **alt_names**, **remarks**, and **title** fields from all eleven lists.

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/consolidated_screening_list/search?api_key={your key}&q={term}

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-keyword.html %}

### sources

Searches only the lists specified by the **Source** Abbreviation.

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/consolidated_screening_list/search?api_key={your key}&sources={csl_type}

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-source.html %}

For each list, the Source Abbreviations are as follows:

**Department of Commerce – Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)**  
   Denied Persons List = **DPL**  
   Entity List = **EL**  
   Unverified List = **UVL**  

**Department of State – Bureau of International Security and Non-Proliferation**  
   Nonproliferation Sanctions = **ISN**  
 
**Department of State – Directorate of Defense Trade Controls**  
   ITAR Debarred = **DTC**  

**Department of Treasury - Office of Foreign Assets Control**  
   Foreign Sanctions Evaders = **FSE**  
   Palestinian Legislative Council List = **PLC**  
   Part 561 List = **561**  
   Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List = **SSI**  
   Specially Designated Nationals = **SDN**  


### countries

Searches only entities whose **country, nationalities,** or **citizenships** fields match the country code based on [ISO alpha-2 country codes](http://www.iso.org/iso/home/standards/country_codes/country_names_and_code_elements.htm). The **country** fields are found in the **addresses** and **ids** arrays. This method allows you to search for multiple countries (plural) separated by commas but will only return one country (singular) per entity.  

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/consolidated_screening_list/search?api_key={your key}&countries={country code}

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-country.html %}

### address

Searches against fields in the **addresses** array.

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/consolidated_screening_list/search?api_key={your key}&address={query}

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-address.html %}

### name

Searches against the **name** and **alt_names** fields.  

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/consolidated_screening_list/search?api_key={your key}&name={query}

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-name.html %}
 
### fuzzy_name

Fuzzy name matching enables users to query a name and get usable results without knowing the exact spelling of an entry. 
It works by expanding queries to include results that are *fuzzily* similar to the given term, where similarity 
is defined by **distance** - the number of changes required to get from one term to another. 

The following example contains terms with a distance of 1. Valid transformation types are given in parenthesis. 

    star => stir  (substitution)
    star => stars (insertion)
    star => tar   (deletion)
    star => tsar  (transposition)

This notion of distance between strings is defined formally as [Damerau–Levenshtein distance](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Damerau%E2%80%93Levenshtein_distance)

We allow for fuzzy matching up to a distance of 2. For example, a search for *Smith*, will return matches on the following 
variants of the name (among others).
 
| query term | distance |
|------------|----------|
| Smith | 0 |
| Smyth  | 1 |
| Smithy  | 1 | 
| Smythe  | 2 |
| Stitch | 2 |
| ... |
	
Fuzzy matching can be particularly helpful with names that are commonly transliterated into English in various ways.

Results from a fuzzy name search include a **score**. The higher the score, the more closely the query term matches an entry in the consolidated screening list. 

**Note**: The *fuzzy_name* parameter only works in tandem with *name*. Set *fuzzy_name=true* to utilize fuzzy name matching when searching against the **name** and **alt_names** fields.  The default setting for *fuzzy_name* is *false*, which means the endpoint will only return exact matches.

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/consolidated_screening_list/search?api_key={your key}&name={query}&fuzzy_name=true

Also, special characters such as hashtags (#) and ampersands (&) contained in a need to be URL encoded; e.g., *AT&T* should be encoded as *at%26t*.

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-fuzzy-name.html %}


### type

Searches based on the type of the entry (e.g, Individual, Entity, Vessel).

	{{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/consolidated_screening_list/search?api_key={your key}&type={entry type}

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-type.html %}

### start_date

Returns entries based on their start date.  Dates are filtered by comparing them against an inclusive range, which must be entered with the following format:  YYYY-mm-dd TO YYYY-mm-dd.  Searching on a single date can be done by entering the same value for the start and end of the range.


    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/consolidated_screening_list/search?api_key={your key}&start_date={YYYY-mm-dd TO YYYY-mm-dd}

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-startdate.html %}

### end_date

Returns entries based on their end date.  Dates are filtered by comparing them against an inclusive range, which must be entered with the following format:  YYYY-mm-dd TO YYYY-mm-dd.  Searching on a single date can be done by entering the same value for the start and end of the range.


    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/consolidated_screening_list/search?api_key={your key}&end_date={YYYY-mm-dd TO YYYY-mm-dd}

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-enddate.html %}

### issue_date

Returns entries based on the issue dates of the ids array.  Dates are filtered by comparing them against an inclusive range, which must be entered with the following format:  YYYY-mm-dd TO YYYY-mm-dd.  Searching on a single date can be done by entering the same value for the start and end of the range.


    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/consolidated_screening_list/search?api_key={your key}&issue_date={YYYY-mm-dd TO YYYY-mm-dd}

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-issuedate.html %}

### expiration_date

Returns entries based on the expiration dates of the ids array.  Dates are filtered by comparing them against an inclusive range, which must be entered with the following format:  YYYY-mm-dd TO YYYY-mm-dd.  Searching on a single date can be done by entering the same value for the start and end of the range.


    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/consolidated_screening_list/search?api_key={your key}&expiration_date={YYYY-mm-dd TO YYYY-mm-dd}

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-expirationdate.html %}

### sort

Returns entries sorted by the provided field name.  The possible fields to sort by are **name**, **start_date**, **issue_date**, **end_date**, and **expiration_date**.

Enter the field name followed by a colon, then the desired order **asc** (ascending) or **desc** (descending).  For example, **start_date:desc** sorts results from most recent start date to earliest.  Entries that do not contain the entered field or contain a null or empty value will be returned after the sorted results.

**Note:**  By default, searches that do not contain a full-text search (**q**, **name**, **address**) will return results by **name:asc** even if no sort parameter is entered.


    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/consolidated_screening_list/search?api_key={your key}&sort={fieldname:order}

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-sort.html %}

### size + offset

The **size** parameter allows you to configure the number of results to be returned up to a maximum of 100. The **offset** parameter defines the offset from the first result you want to fetch. Unless specified the API returns 10 results at a time.

    {{ site.webservices_baseurl }}/consolidated_screening_list/search?api_key={your key}&size={1 to 100}&offset={1 to n}
    
**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-size.html %}

## Metadata

### Last Updated and Last Imported

Recency information about each source queried is given in **sources_used** in the following fields:

| Field	| Description |
| ------| -------------|
| source | The name of the list and the issuing agency. |
| source_last_updated | The most recent date and time the list changed. |
| last_imported | The most recent date and time the list was imported. |

The *source_last_updated* field reflects the most recent date and time we noticed that the issuing agency had updated their list. We check for updates and import lists hourly.

### Search Performed At

The *search_performed_at* field displays the date and time of the current search in UTC.

## The Eleven Screening Lists, Their Sources and Specific Fields

Each list returns a unique set of fields.  Where appropriate, the Consolidated Screening List normalizes the field names, such as **addresses**, **start_date**, and **federal_register_notice**.

### Department of Commerce – Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)

[**Denied Persons List (DPL)**](http://www.bis.doc.gov/dpl/default.shtm)

Individuals and entities that have been denied export privileges. Any dealings with a party on this list that would violate the terms of its denial order are prohibited.

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-dpl.html %}

| Field	| Description |
| ------| -------------|
| addresses | Array of entity’s complete addresses. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _address_ | Street address for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _city_ | City for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _state_ | State for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _postal_code_ | Postal code for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _country_ | Country for addresses entry. |
| end_date | The date on which the entity's inclusion on the list will be lifted, waived, or will have expired. | 
| federal_register_notice | The official source of information about the parties on this list. | 
| name | Entity's name. | 
| remarks | Additional remarks or notes regarding the company, entity, or person on the list. | 
| source | Denied Persons List (DPL) - Bureau of Industry and Security. |
| source_information_url | Information from the Source agency about the list. |
| source_list_url | Location of the original list. | 
| standard_order | Whether or not (Y/N) the [standard order](http://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/policy-guidance/lists-of-parties-of-concern/denied-persons-list/12-policy-guidance/list-parties-of-concern/321-the-denied-persons-list-standard-order) applies to the Denied Party as defined by the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS).|
| start_date  | The effective date for the entity to be included on the list as defined by the Federal Register Notice. |



[**Entity List (EL)**](http://www.bis.doc.gov/entities/default.htm)

Parties whose presence in a transaction can trigger a license requirement supplemental to those elsewhere in the Export Administration Regulations (EAR). The list specifies the license requirements and policy that apply to each listed party.

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-el.html %}

| Field	| Description |
| ------| -------------|
| addresses | Array of entity’s complete addresses. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _address_ | Street address for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _city_ | City for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _state_ | State for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _postal_code_ | Postal code for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _country_ | Country for addresses entry. |
| alt_names | Alias names used by the entity. | 
| federal_register_notice | The official source of information about the parties on this list. | 
| license_policy | The policy set forth in the Export Administration Regulations regarding denial. |
| license_requirement | The license requirement as determined by the Export Administration Regulations. |
| name | Entity's name. | 
| title | Entity's title. | 
| source | Entity List (EL) - Bureau of Industry and Security. |
| source_information_url | Information from the Source agency about the list. |
| source_list_url | Location of the original list. | 
| standard_order | Whether or not (Y/N) the [standard order](http://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/policy-guidance/lists-of-parties-of-concern/denied-persons-list/12-policy-guidance/list-parties-of-concern/321-the-denied-persons-list-standard-order) applies to the Denied Party as defined by the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS).|
| start_date  | The effective date of the entity on the list as defined by the Federal Register Notice. |


[**Unverified List (UVL)**](http://www.bis.doc.gov/enforcement/unverifiedlist/unverified_parties.html)

End-users who BIS has been unable to verify in prior transactions. The presence of a party on this list in a transaction is a “Red Flag” that should be resolved before proceeding with the transaction.

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-uvl.html %}

| Field	| Description |
| ------| -------------|
| addresses | Array of entity’s complete addresses. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _address_ | Street address for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _city_ | City for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _state_ | State for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _postal_code_ | Postal code for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _country_ | Country for addresses entry. |
| alt_names | Alias names used by the entity. | 
| name | Entity's name. | 
| source | Unverified List (UVL) - Bureau of Industry and Security. |
| source_information_url | Information from the Source agency about the list. |
| source_list_url | Location of the original list. | 

### Department of State – Bureau of International Security and Non-Proliferation

[**Nonproliferation Sanctions (ISN)**](http://www.state.gov/t/isn/c15231.htm)

Parties that have been sanctioned under various statutes. The linked webpage is updated as appropriate, but the Federal Register is the only official and complete listing of nonproliferation sanctions determinations.

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-isn.html %}

| Field	| Description |
| ------| -------------|
| addresses | Array of entity’s complete addresses. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _address_ | Street address for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _city_ | City for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _state_ | State for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _postal_code_ | Postal code for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _country_ | Country for addresses entry. |
| federal_register_notice | The official source of information about the parties on this list. |
| name | Entity's name. | 
| programs | Agency programs related to the entity on the list. |
| remarks | Additional remarks or notes regarding the company, entity or person on the list. |
| source | Nonproliferation Sanctions (ISN) - State Department. |
| source_information_url | Information from the Source agency about the list. |
| source_list_url | Location of the original list. | 
| start_date  | The effective date of the entity on the list as defined by the Federal Register Notice. |


#### Department of State – Directorate of Defense Trade Controls

[**ITAR Debarred List (DTC)**](http://www.pmddtc.state.gov/compliance/debar_intro.html)

Entities and individuals prohibited from participating directly or indirectly in the export of defense articles, including technical data and defense services.  Pursuant to the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), the AECA Debarred List includes persons convicted in court of violating or conspiring to violate the AECA and subject to “statutory debarment” or persons established to have violated the AECA in an administrative proceeding and subject to “administrative debarment.”

This list does not have a **country** field. As such, any query where **country** is specified will not search this list.

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-dtc.html %}

| Field	| Description |
| ------| -------------|
| alt_names | Alias names used by the entity. | 
| federal_register_notice | The official source of information about the parties on this list. | 
| name | Entity's name. | 
| source | ITAR Debarred (DTC) - State Department. |
| source_information_url | Information from the Source agency about the list. |
| source_list_url | Location of the original list. | 
| start_date  | The effective date of the entity on the list as defined by the Federal Register Notice. |

### Department of the Treasury – Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC)

[**Foreign Sanctions Evaders List (FSE)**](http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/SDN-List/Pages/fse_list.aspx)

Foreign individuals and entities determined to have violated, attempted to violate, conspired to violate, or caused a violation of U.S. sanctions on Syria or Iran, as well as foreign persons who have facilitated deceptive transactions for or on behalf of persons subject to U.S. Sanctions. Transactions by U.S. persons or within the United States involving Foreign Sanctions Evaders (FSEs) are prohibited.

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-fse.html %}

[**Palestinian Legislative Council List (PLC)**](http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/Terrorism-Proliferation-Narcotics/Pages/index.aspx)

The individuals in this list are Palestinian Legislative Council members who were elected on the party slate of a Foreign Terrorist Organization, Specially Designated Terrorist, or Specially Designated Global Terrorist. They do not, however, appear on the SDN List.  Transactions involving these individuals must be rejected.

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-plc.html %}

[**Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI)**](http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/SDN-List/Pages/ssi_list.aspx)

This Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List includes persons determined by OFAC to be operating in sectors of the Russian economy identified by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to Executive Order 13662. The prohibitions on dealings related to the persons identified on this list are described in the [Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List circular](http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/ssi/ssi.pdf).

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-ssi.html %}

[**Specially Designated Nationals List (SDN)**](http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/SDN-List/Pages/default.aspx)

Parties who may be prohibited from export transactions based on OFAC’s regulations. The Export Administration Regulations (EAR) require a license for exports or re-exports to any party in any entry on this list that contains any of the suffixes "SDGT", "SDT", "FTO", "IRAQ2" or "NPWMD".”

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-sdn.html %}

[**Part 561 List (561)**](http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/programs/pages/iran.aspx#part561)

The Part 561 List includes the names of foreign financial Institutions that are subject to sanctions, certain prohibitions, or strict conditions before a U.S. company may do business with them.

**_Example_**

{% include screening-list/csl-query-561.html %}

**Fields for all Treasury Lists:**

| Field	| Description |
| ------| -------------|
| addresses | Array of entity’s complete addresses. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _address_ | Street address for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _city_ | City for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _state_ | State for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _postal_code_ | Postal code for addresses entry. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _country_ | Country for addresses entry. |
| alt_names | Alias names used by the entity. | 
| citizenships | Entity's citizenships. |
| dates_of_birth | Entity's dates of birth. |
| entity_number | Unique id assigned by the originating list. |
| ids | An array showing specific identification information of the entity. Array fields in _italics_. | 
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _country_ | _Entity's country_ . |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _expiration_date_ | _The date on which the identification will expire_. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _issue_date_ | _The effective date of the identification_. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _number_ | _Unique number assigned to the identification_. |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; _type_ | _Describes the type of identification (i.e. passport, license, etc.)_. |
| name | Entity's name. | 
| nationalities | Entity's nationalities. |
| places_of_birth | Entity's places of birth. |
| programs | Agency programs related to the entity on the list. |
| remarks | Additional remarks or notes regarding the company, entity or person on the list. |
| source | Specially Designated Nationals (SDN) - Treasury Department. |
| source_information_url | Information from the Source agency about the list. |
| source_list_url | Location of the original list. | 
| title | Entity's title. |
| type | Classification of the entity. |

If the entity is a vessel, it will have the following additional fields:

| Field	| Description |
| ------| -------------|
| call_sign | Call sign of the vessel. |
| gross_registered_tonnage | The gross weight in tons registered for the vessel. |
| gross_tonnage | The gross weight in tons not-registered for the vessel. |
| vessel_flag | Country flag of the vessel. |
| vessel_owner | Owner/Operator of the vessel. |
| vessel_type | Describes the type of vessel (ferry, bulk cargo, tug). |

OFAC provides [further documentation](http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/SDN-List/Pages/program_tags.aspx) for the **programs** field.

	
##  ITA’s Process for Consolidating the Screening Lists

ITA’s data services platform imports each of the eleven screening lists once every hour.  It then consolidates the lists based on common field types such as name, federal_register_notice, and start_date.  Not all lists contain the same fields so some search results may include more detail than others depending upon the Source agency.  Once the data services platform consolidates the lists, it publishes the [CSL API endpoint](http://api.govwizely.com/consolidated_screening_list/search).

There can be a time lag of up to one hour between the time a Source has updated a screening list and when that update appears in the Consolidated Screening List API. Furthermore, the Consolidated Screening List API is not the system of record for these screening lists.  Developers should strongly encourage users to refer to the website of the source agency for further instructions when finding a potential match.  Links to these websites are found above as well as in the “Source List URL” and “Source Information URL” fields that accompany each party returned in the API. 
